Add text describing deployment impacts of no SNI access (#566)
tlswg/draft-ietf-tls-esni: draft-ietf-tls-esni.md

In the subsequent ServerHello message, the backend server sends the
accept_confirmation value as described in {{backend-server}}.

# Deployment Considerations {#deployment}

The design of ECH as specified in this document necessarily requires changes
to client, client-facing server, and backend server. Coordination between
client-facing and backend server requires care, as deployment mistakes
can lead to compatibility issues. These are discussed in {{compat-issues}}.

Beyond coordination difficulties, ECH deployments may also induce challenges

> for use cases of information that ECH is designed to encrypt. In particular,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for use cases of information that ECH protects. In particular,
```

in {{rejected-ech}} or result in a connection failure. A proxy which is not
authoritative for the public name cannot forge a signal to disable ECH.

## Deployment Impact {#no-sni}

Some use cases which depend on information ECH encrypts may break with the
deployment of ECH. The extent of breakage depends on a number of external
factors, including, for example, whether ECH can be disabled, whether or not
the party disabling ECH is trusted to do so, and whether or not client

> implementations will fall back to TLS without ECH in the event of such a
> toggle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
implementations will fall back to TLS without ECH in the event of disablement.
```

Depending on implementation details and deployment settings, use cases
which depend on plaintext TLS information may require fundamentally different
approaches to continue working. For example, in managed enterprise settings,
one approach may be to disable ECH entirely and for client implementations

> to honor this request. Another approach may be to intercept and decrypt client

Reviewer: It might be worth suggesting how to disable ECH here. (Toggle in DNS?)

Author: We could offer that as an example, yeah.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we should point people to unauthenticated DNS toggles if we can help it. Perhaps just "disable ECH entirely via group policy"?

Author: That's a good suggestion -- I'll work it in.

in {{rejected-ech}} or result in a connection failure. A proxy which is not
authoritative for the public name cannot forge a signal to disable ECH.

## Deployment Impact {#no-sni}

Some use cases which depend on information ECH encrypts may break with the
deployment of ECH. The extent of breakage depends on a number of external
factors, including, for example, whether ECH can be disabled, whether or not
the party disabling ECH is trusted to do so, and whether or not client
implementations will fall back to TLS without ECH in the event of disablement.

Depending on implementation details and deployment settings, use cases
which depend on plaintext TLS information may require fundamentally different
approaches to continue working. For example, in managed enterprise settings,
one approach may be to disable ECH entirely via via group policy and for
client implementations to honor this action. Another approach may be to
intercept and decrypt client TLS connections. The feasibility of alternative
solutions is specific to individual deployments.

> In environments where the network operator controls the endpoint devices, but

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In environments where the network operator does not control the endpoint devices, or does controls the endpoint devices, but
```

is concerned about the security consequences of compromised devices, e.g., data
exfiltration, the SNI field is unsuitable for use as a control even in the

> absence of ECH. This is because compromised devices can alter or spoof the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
absence of ECH. This is because devices without controls, or which have been compromised, can alter or spoof the
```

> In environments where the network operator does not control the endpoint devices, or does controls the endpoint devices, but
> is concerned about the security consequences of compromised devices, e.g., data
> exfiltration, the SNI field is unsuitable for use as a control even in the
> absence of ECH. This is because devices without controls, or which have been compromised, can alter or spoof the
> value in an SNI field already, and can even bypass security appliances which
> try to 'double-check' websites hosted by the target server. ECH does not
> materially change this situation.

Author: ```suggestion
In environments where the network operator does not control the endpoint
devices, or does controls the endpoint devices, but is concerned about the
security consequences of compromised devices, e.g., data exfiltration, the
SNI field is unsuitable for use as a control even in the absence of ECH. This
is because devices without controls, or which have been compromised, can alter
or spoof the value in an SNI field already, and can even bypass security
appliances which try to 'double-check' websites hosted by the target server.
ECH does not materially change this situation.
```

in {{rejected-ech}} or result in a connection failure. A proxy which is not
authoritative for the public name cannot forge a signal to disable ECH.

## Deployment Impact {#no-sni}

Some use cases which depend on information ECH encrypts may break with the
deployment of ECH. The extent of breakage depends on a number of external
factors, including, for example, whether ECH can be disabled, whether or not
the party disabling ECH is trusted to do so, and whether or not client
implementations will fall back to TLS without ECH in the event of disablement.

Depending on implementation details and deployment settings, use cases
which depend on plaintext TLS information may require fundamentally different
approaches to continue working. For example, in managed enterprise settings,
one approach may be to disable ECH entirely via via group policy and for
client implementations to honor this action. Another approach may be to
intercept and decrypt client TLS connections. The feasibility of alternative
solutions is specific to individual deployments.

In environments where the network operator does not control the endpoint

> devices, or does controls the endpoint devices, but is concerned about the

Author: ```suggestion
devices, or does controls the endpoint devices but is concerned about the
```
